README.md, before:

## EdgeTranslate-v3 (MV3)

A fork of Edge Translate refactored for Manifest V3, modern build tooling, and current browser policies. After the original MV2-based version was removed from stores, this project modernizes the code and build to preserve the same user experience with improved stability.

- Original repo: [EdgeTranslate/EdgeTranslate](https://github.com/EdgeTranslate/EdgeTranslate)
- Current repo: [Meapri/EdgeTranslate-v3](https://github.com/Meapri/EdgeTranslate-v3)

View this page in other languages:
- [简体中文](./docs/README_CN.md)
- [繁體中文](./docs/README_TW.md)
- [日本語](./docs/README_JA.md)
- [한국어](./docs/README_KO.md)

### Key Features
- Selection translation with side popup: Shows results in a side panel so your reading flow isn’t interrupted. You can customize visible sections (common meanings, pronunciation, definitions/detailed explanations, examples, etc.) and pin the panel.
- PDF translation/viewer: Built-in pdf.js viewer supports word/sentence translation within PDFs. Page dark mode (color inversion) and UI tweaks improve readability.
- Full-page translation (Chrome only): Trigger from the context menu when needed. It never runs automatically. Not available on Safari/Firefox.
- Shortcuts: Quickly operate selection translation, pin/unpin the result panel, and expand panels using only the keyboard.
- Blacklist: Add the current page/domain to disable selection/double-click translation on that page.
- Text-to-Speech (TTS): Prefers higher-quality voices for more natural reading.

### Downloads
- [Chrome Web Store](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/edge-translate/pljeedmkegkcfkgdicjnalbllhifnnnj)
- [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/Meapri/EdgeTranslate-v3/releases)

### Browser Support and Limits
- Chrome: Selection translation, PDF viewer, full-page translation
- Firefox: Selection translation, PDF viewer (some limitations due to browser issues), no full-page translation
- Safari (macOS): Selection translation, PDF viewer, no full-page translation (platform policies/limits)

### Privacy & Security
- No analytics/statistics collection; no tracking
- Minimal-permissions principle
- On Chrome, “Allow access to file URLs” may be needed for file:// pages

### Installation (for development/testing)
Chrome (Developer Mode)
1) Open `chrome://extensions` and enable Developer mode
2) Build below, then “Load unpacked” → select `build/chrome`

Firefox (Temporary Load)
1) Open `about:debugging` → Load Temporary Add-on → select any file in `build/firefox`

Safari (macOS)
1) Run via the Xcode project with synchronized resources (see Development/Build)

### Development / Build
Working directory: `packages/EdgeTranslate`

1) Install dependencies
```
cd packages/EdgeTranslate
npm install
```

2) Build all browsers in parallel
```
npm run build
```
Or per-browser
```
npm run pack:chrome
npm run pack:firefox
npm run build:safari && npm run safari:rsync
```

3) Safari development (Xcode sync workflow)
```
npm run dev:safari
```
Resources sync to `safari-xcode/EdgeTranslate/EdgeTranslate Extension/Resources/`.

4) Optional Safari release automation (archive/export/upload)
```
npm run safari:release
```
Requires environment variables (App Store credentials, etc.).

Build outputs
- Chrome: `packages/EdgeTranslate/build/chrome/`
- Firefox: `packages/EdgeTranslate/build/firefox/`
- Safari resources: `packages/EdgeTranslate/build/safari/` → rsync to Xcode

### Host Permissions
Global host permissions are required for always-on content scripts (selection translation, etc.). Chrome uses `host_permissions: ["*://*/*"]`; Firefox/Safari use `<all_urls>`-matched content scripts. The extension adheres to a minimal-permissions approach.

 

### Documentation
- Original project docs (general feature reference):
  - Instructions: [Edge Translate Instructions](https://github.com/EdgeTranslate/EdgeTranslate/blob/master/docs/wiki/en/Instructions.md)
  - Precautions: [Edge Translate Precautions](https://github.com/EdgeTranslate/EdgeTranslate/blob/master/docs/wiki/en/Precautions.md)

### License
- MIT AND NPL, same as the original project
- License files: [LICENSE.MIT](./LICENSE.MIT), [LICENSE.NPL](./LICENSE.NPL)

### Credits
- Thanks to the original Edge Translate and all contributors.
- This fork rebuilds the project for MV3 and modern browsers while preserving the original UX.

Commit message:

docs: update README with PDF settings purpose, release links, and build steps

README.md, after:

## EdgeTranslate-v3 (MV3)

This repository is based on [Meapri/EdgeTranslate-v3](https://github.com/Meapri/EdgeTranslate-v3), which refactored Edge Translate for Manifest V3.
In this fork, additional work is being done to add PDF-related settings and improve compatibility with built-in and extension-based PDF viewers.

View this page in other languages:
- [繁體中文](./docs/README_TW.md)

### Key Features
- Selection translation with side popup: Shows results in a side panel so your reading flow isn’t interrupted. You can customize visible sections (common meanings, pronunciation, definitions/detailed explanations, examples, etc.) and pin the panel.
- PDF translation/viewer: Built-in pdf.js viewer supports word/sentence translation within PDFs. Page dark mode (color inversion) and UI tweaks improve readability.
- Full-page translation (Chrome only): Trigger from the context menu when needed. It never runs automatically. Not available on Safari/Firefox.
- Shortcuts: Quickly operate selection translation, pin/unpin the result panel, and expand panels using only the keyboard.
- Blacklist: Add the current page/domain to disable selection/double-click translation on that page.
- Text-to-Speech (TTS): Prefers higher-quality voices for more natural reading.

### Downloads
- [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/ht177970/EdgeTranslate-v3/releases)

### Browser Support and Limits
- Chrome: Selection translation, PDF viewer, full-page translation
- Firefox: Selection translation, PDF viewer (some limitations due to browser issues), no full-page translation
- Safari (macOS): Selection translation, PDF viewer, no full-page translation (platform policies/limits)

### Privacy & Security
- No analytics/statistics collection; no tracking
- Minimal-permissions principle
- On Chrome, “Allow access to file URLs” may be needed for file:// pages

### Installation (for development/testing)
Chrome (Developer Mode)
1) Open `chrome://extensions` and enable Developer mode
2) Build below, then “Load unpacked” → select `build/chrome`

Firefox (Temporary Load)
1) Open `about:debugging` → Load Temporary Add-on → select any file in `build/firefox`

Safari (macOS)
1) Run via the Xcode project with synchronized resources (see Development/Build)

### First build

1) Install dependencies
```
cd packages/translators
npm install
```

### Development / Build
Working directory: `packages/EdgeTranslate`

1) Install dependencies
```
cd packages/EdgeTranslate
npm install
```

2) Build all browsers in parallel
```
npm run build
```
Or per-browser
```
npm run pack:chrome
npm run pack:firefox
npm run build:safari && npm run safari:rsync
```

3) Safari development (Xcode sync workflow)
```
npm run dev:safari
```
Resources sync to `safari-xcode/EdgeTranslate/EdgeTranslate Extension/Resources/`.

4) Optional Safari release automation (archive/export/upload)
```
npm run safari:release
```
Requires environment variables (App Store credentials, etc.).

Build outputs
- Chrome: `packages/EdgeTranslate/build/chrome/`
- Firefox: `packages/EdgeTranslate/build/firefox/`
- Safari resources: `packages/EdgeTranslate/build/safari/` → rsync to Xcode

### Host Permissions
Global host permissions are required for always-on content scripts (selection translation, etc.). Chrome uses `host_permissions: ["*://*/*"]`; Firefox/Safari use `<all_urls>`-matched content scripts. The extension adheres to a minimal-permissions approach.

### Documentation
- Original project docs (general feature reference):
  - Instructions: [Edge Translate Instructions](https://github.com/EdgeTranslate/EdgeTranslate/blob/master/docs/wiki/en/Instructions.md)
  - Precautions: [Edge Translate Precautions](https://github.com/EdgeTranslate/EdgeTranslate/blob/master/docs/wiki/en/Precautions.md)

### License
- MIT AND NPL, same as the original project
- License files: [LICENSE.MIT](./LICENSE.MIT), [LICENSE.NPL](./LICENSE.NPL)

### Credits
- Thanks to the original Edge Translate and all contributors.
- This fork rebuilds the project for MV3 and modern browsers while preserving the original UX.
